                    Nullsoft SHOUTcast DNAS Server Authhash Management
                               (Last Updated 17 July 2011)


1.0   Introduction
2.0   Management
2.1     Creating
2.2     Updating
2.3     Removing
2.4     Duplicating
3.0   Management Issues


1.0   Introduction
------------------

One of the key aspects of the new YP2 directory infrastructure is an authorisation key
which is used to validate your server when it tries to connect to the YP2 infrastructure
for any of the station(s) you run. Once this key is obtained, it will be valid for all
root servers of the station being broadcast.

You can obtain multiple authorisation keys if broadcasting the same stream content at
different bitrates so they will appear separately in the SHOUTcast Directory listings.
This is not needed if broadcasting the same content in MP3 and AAC+ formats as the
SHOUTcast Directory will automatically list those streams separately.



2.0   Management
----------------
To obtain a unique authentication key you first need to have setup the DNAS and have a
source (such as the Source DSP or Transcoder) correctly connected so the stream is
recognised by the DNAS. Then login to the 'Administrator Summary' page accessed from the
'Administrator Login' on the 'DNAS Summary' page which you usually access at
http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin.cgi if doing this on the same machine as the DNAS. If you
have changed 'portbase' then change 8000 to the value specified for 'portbase'. If you
are accessing this remotely then you will need to change 127.0.0.1 to the appropriate IP
address of the machine you are trying to access.

On this page you will see any streams which have sources connected to them with
'Create Authhash', 'Update Authhash' and 'Remove Authhash' options shown as appropriate
beneath the stream number.


2.1   Creating
--------------

To create an authhash for a stream then you need to click the 'Create Authhash' link.
This will take you to another page where you need to fill in the missing fields as
applicable for your stream as the DNAS attempts to fill in fields with the information
obtained from the connected source. Once all of the required information has been entered
then click the 'Create Authhash' button.

If there is a missing field or something is not right when attempting to create the
authhash, then you will see a message showing what needs to be entered or changed or what
to do to get additional help.

On successful creation, the new authhash will be saved into your configuration file
either in the root configuration file or one where there's an empty streamauthhash entry
matching the stream identifier. When you go back to the 'Administrator Summary' page the
'Create Authhash' link will have changed to 'Update Authhash' and 'Remove Authhash' links.

 It can take up to 10 minutes for the new authhash to be fully recognised so if you
 have made a mistake or are trying to get listed then you will need to be wait.


2.2   Updating
--------------

Updating an authhash is the same as creating an authhash just with the existing
information of the authhash shown in the fields allowing for them to be edited. If there
are no issues and the authhash can be updated from the machine used (with it having the
same external IP as used to create the authhash) then any changes made should be updated
in the YP system.

If there is a missing field or something is not right when attempting to create the
authhash, then you will see a message showing what needs to be entered or changed or what
to do to get additional help.

 It can take up to 10 minutes for changed details to be fully recognised so if
 you have made a mistake or are trying to get listed then you will need to wait.


2.3   Removing
--------------

Removing an authhash is a simple action of clicking the 'Remove Authhash' link. If there
are no issues and the authhash can be removed from the machine used (with it having the
same external IP as used to create the authhash) then it will be removed from the YP
system and also from your configuration file.


2.4   Duplicating
-----------------

If you want to use the same authhash on another stream (e.g. if only the stream format is
different or you want to group the same stream content) then you will need to manually
edit you configuration file by setting the relevant streamauthhash entry for the required
stream configuration group and use the 'Reload All Stream Configuration(s)' option on the
'Administrator Summary' page.



3.0   Management Issues
-----------------------

Updating or removing an authhash requires the same external IP of the machine to be found
by the YP against what was used when the authhash was created. If this external IP has
changed then you will need to contact support via http://forums.winamp.com/showthread.php?t=331394
ensuring all required information is provided as is detailed.

If you experience other issues with managing your authhashes via the options provided,
make sure you follow any information provided to attempt to resolve the issue. If that
still does not work then you will need to contact support via http://forums.winamp.com/showthread.php?t=331394
ensuring all required information is provided as is detailed.